README.md, before:

# Group 30 - Analyzing Police Killings Dataset

- Your title can change over time.

## Milestones

Details for Milestone are available on Canvas (left sidebar, Course Project) or [here](https://firas.moosvi.com/courses/data301/project/milestone01.html).

Link to [Milestone 1](https://github.com/data301-2021-summer2/group30-project/blob/main/analysis/Seravin/milestone1.ipynb).

Link to Milestone 2 [Task 1&2](https://github.com/data301-2021-summer2/group30-project/blob/main/analysis/Seravin/Milestone2/Milestone2_task_1%262.ipynb) and [Task 3&4](https://github.com/data301-2021-summer2/group30-project/blob/main/analysis/Seravin/Milestone2/Milestone2_task_3%264.ipynb).

## Describe your topic/interest in about 150-200 words

Due to the events that occurred in 2020, I am interested to see the statistics around police killings and this dataset allows me to find patterns around it. From the dataset, I am specifically interested in answering: Are there any risk factors that increase the likelihood of  police killing incidents occuring? An example of a risk factor is the victim's age; in other words, does a certain victim age increases or decreases the likelihood for a police killing incident to occur? I want to know the risk factors to understand the situational factors of a police killing accident. I hope that by discovering patterns around police killing incidents, I can educate myself and others on police killing incidents and how to prevent or reduce the occurrence of future police killing incidents. Lastly, I think that this dataset can be used to build a user-facing Dashboard as I can use it to find patterns and statistics that have meaningful visual presentations.


## Describe your dataset in about 150-200 words

This dataset was downloaded from the Guardian’s database on police killings and the census data from American Community Survey on June 2, 2015 for the year 2015. The Guardian collected their data using traditional reporting on police reports and witness statements by monitoring regional news outlets, research groups, and open-source reporting projects. They collected these data for the transparency and accountability of the law enforcement, as the US government has no comprehensive record of the number of people killed by law enforcement. The American Community Survey collected their data through surveys with the goal of providing information on a yearly basis about the US and its people. The dataset consists of the victims' demographics, killing incident details, and characteristics of the location for police killings. The dataset consists of 15,912 observations (34 columns and 468 rows). Columns 1-4 are the victims' demographics, columns 5-21 are the killing incident details, and columns 22-34 are the location of occurance characteristics; I have speculated and divided the columns into these three groups based on the column descriptions given.

## Team Members

- Seravin Suteja: I am really excited and passionate about the topic that I will be analysing in this project!

## References
https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/ng-interactive/2015/jun/01/about-the-counted

https://www.census.gov/programs-surveys/acs/about.html

https://github.com/fivethirtyeight/data/tree/master/police-killings

Commit message:

added link to MS3 and dashboard

README.md, after:

# Group 30 - Analyzing Police Killings Dataset

- Your title can change over time.

## Milestones

Details for Milestone are available on Canvas (left sidebar, Course Project) or [here](https://firas.moosvi.com/courses/data301/project/milestone01.html).

Link to [Milestone 1](https://github.com/data301-2021-summer2/group30-project/blob/main/analysis/Seravin/milestone1.ipynb).

Link to Milestone 2 [Task 1&2](https://github.com/data301-2021-summer2/group30-project/blob/main/analysis/Seravin/Milestone2/Milestone2_task_1%262.ipynb) and [Task 3&4](https://github.com/data301-2021-summer2/group30-project/blob/main/analysis/Seravin/Milestone2/Milestone2_task_3%264.ipynb).

Link to Milestone 3 [Final Jupyter Notebook for Submission](https://github.com/data301-2021-summer2/group30-project/blob/main/analysis/submitted/EDA%26Analysis.ipynb).

Link to [Dashboard](https://github.com/data301-2021-summer2/group30-project/blob/main/presentation/Dashboard.twb)

## Describe your topic/interest in about 150-200 words

Due to the events that occurred in 2020, I am interested to see the statistics around police killings and this dataset allows me to find patterns around it. From the dataset, I am specifically interested in answering: Are there any risk factors that increase the likelihood of  police killing incidents occuring? An example of a risk factor is the victim's age; in other words, does a certain victim age increases or decreases the likelihood for a police killing incident to occur? I want to know the risk factors to understand the situational factors of a police killing accident. I hope that by discovering patterns around police killing incidents, I can educate myself and others on police killing incidents and how to prevent or reduce the occurrence of future police killing incidents. Lastly, I think that this dataset can be used to build a user-facing Dashboard as I can use it to find patterns and statistics that have meaningful visual presentations.


## Describe your dataset in about 150-200 words

This dataset was downloaded from the Guardian’s database on police killings and the census data from American Community Survey on June 2, 2015 for the year 2015. The Guardian collected their data using traditional reporting on police reports and witness statements by monitoring regional news outlets, research groups, and open-source reporting projects. They collected these data for the transparency and accountability of the law enforcement, as the US government has no comprehensive record of the number of people killed by law enforcement. The American Community Survey collected their data through surveys with the goal of providing information on a yearly basis about the US and its people. The dataset consists of the victims' demographics, killing incident details, and characteristics of the location for police killings. The dataset consists of 15,912 observations (34 columns and 468 rows). Columns 1-4 are the victims' demographics, columns 5-21 are the killing incident details, and columns 22-34 are the location of occurance characteristics; I have speculated and divided the columns into these three groups based on the column descriptions given.

## Team Members

- Seravin Suteja: I am really excited and passionate about the topic that I will be analysing in this project!

## References
https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/ng-interactive/2015/jun/01/about-the-counted

https://www.census.gov/programs-surveys/acs/about.html

https://github.com/fivethirtyeight/data/tree/master/police-killings
